Let's open the class bindings one dot html.
Here we have a box in cyan color if we inspect
element
It has bootstrap class bg info. What we'll do here is
change the class to bg primary when user mouse
over to the box.
Otherwise if the user mouse out from the box
the background color will turn back to bg info.
OK let's do that.
Let's switch back over to our editor then open
the class bindings one dot html file. In the books
There are two classes
row and bg info
Here we're going to leave the row class on the country
let's cut the bg-info class then let's add
v-bind colon class equals then here
we'll pass an object as an argument but before that we
should remember we'll need two different classes here.
One class will be applied when mouse
over and another class when most out.
So before we define that class we can
firstly define in the data property
a property to hold the state whether
the user is hovering mouse or not.
Let's say hovered and it should be false by default.
Then we can change its value on mouse over
and on mouse out. Then we can change its
value on mouse over event and on mouse out.
So here we just replace the hovered's value to true.
And on mouse out we change the hovered's value
back to false.
Now we can define the classes in the object argument.
The first one is bg info. This class will be
applied when hovered property is false.
Then the bg primary will be applied when hovered is true.
Now let's have a look
actually
let me clean this up.
As you can see
now the background color has turn
to blue or applied bg primary class.
In this case.
But unfortunately when mouse out
the color doesn't change. Let me see.
Sorry I made a typo it should be hovered
So it should be matches with the property that we defined here.
Save
now here the class still bg info and if I now hover over the box
the background color turns to bg primary. If I mouse out of the box
It's now back to bg info.
Next
let's open the class bindings two dot html.
Here we have the exact same app.
We'll change the background color to bg primary
when we mouse over the box and change back the
background color to bg info when mouse out the box.
But the difference here we will define the class in array.
Let's copy everything
then pasted it in the class bindings two dot html.
Because all we need to do here is changing the class
banding.
So as I mentioned before to apply classes in array
we just define the class name as array element.
But here we need to check the state of the hovered
property to determine a single class. If it was true
then the class will be bg info otherwise bg primary.
So let's change this as array opening and closing
then inside it we can check
if hovered is true
then the class will be bg primary.
Otherwise the classes will be bg info.
I don't think we need to change other part so let's save that.
Now if you try to hover over the box
the background color changes.
if we mouse out the box the background color back to
original color. So the result here is exactly the same but
the difference here we defined the classes
in array.
Alright now let's try to define a
single class in a string. Let's open
class binding 3 dot html
Here we have an alert primary.
if we select the class here
then the alert style should be change.
For example if we choose the secondary option then
the alert here will turn to alert secondary and
so on.
Let's switch back over to our editor.
Here we have alert alert primary. So the class
that we need to make dynamic is alert primary.
It depends on what we choose in select option. Let's cut
then add here bind class
here because we only need to apply a single class
We can pass it as a string. Now since we need to
take the value from select option then apply it here
so before that let's firstly define it in the data
property for example alert type and give it
a default value as alert primary.
Now we can pass into our class binding the alert type.
Let's save.
Then back to our browser.
OK so far so good.
The last thing that we need to do here is to make use
input binding from the select element to the alert
type.
Here we can simply use v-model then alert type.
save. Let's have a look
I'll choose the secondary option. The alert turns to the
secondary. Now I'll choose other option success,
danger, warning.
OK that's about class binding.